Aseprite
Build Status Build status Discourse Community Discord Server

Introduction
Aseprite is a program to create animated sprites. Its main features are:

Sprites are composed of layers & frames as separated concepts.
Support for color profiles and different color modes: RGBA, Indexed (palettes up to 256 colors), Grayscale.
Animation facilities, with real-time preview and onion skinning.
Export/import animations to/from sprite sheets, GIF files, or sequence of PNG files (and FLC, FLI, JPG, BMP, PCX, TGA).
Multiple editors support.
Layer groups for organizing your work, and reference layers for rotoscoping.
Pixel-art specific tools like Pixel Perfect freehand mode, Shading ink, Custom Brushes, Outlines, Wide Pixels, etc.
Other special drawing tools like Pressure sensitivity, Symmetry Tool, Stroke and Fill selection, Gradients.
Tiled mode useful to draw patterns and textures.
Transform multiple frames/layers at the same time.
Lua scripting capabilities.
CLI - Command Line Interface to automatize tasks.
Quick Reference / Cheat Sheet keyboard shortcuts (customizable keys and mouse wheel).
Reopen closed files and recover data in case of crash.
Undo/Redo for every operation and support for non-linear undo.
More features & tips
Issues
There is a list of Known Issues (things to be fixed or that aren't yet implemented).

If you found a bug or have a new idea/feature for the program, you can report them.

Support
You can ask for help in:

Aseprite Community
Aseprite Discord Server
Official support: support@aseprite.org
Social networks and community-driven places: Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Instagram.
Authors
Igara Studio is developing Aseprite:

David Capello: Lead developer, fixing issues, new features, and user support.
Gaspar Capello: Developer, fixing issues and new features.
Credits
The default Aseprite theme was introduced in v0.8, created by:

Ilija Melentijevic
Aseprite includes color palettes created by:

Richard "DawnBringer" Fhager, 16 colors, 32 colors.
Arne Niklas Jansson, 16 colors, 32 colors.
ENDESGA Studios, EDG16 and EDG32, and other palettes.
Hyohnoo Games, mail24 palette.
Davit Masia, matriax8c palette.
Javier Guerrero, nyx8 palette.
Adigun A. Polack, AAP-64, AAP-Splendor128, SimpleJPC-16, and AAP-Micro12 palette.
PineTreePizza, Rosy-42 palette.
It tries to replicate some pixel-art algorithms:

RotSprite by Xenowhirl.
Pixel perfect drawing algorithm by Sébastien Bénard and Carduus.
Thanks to third-party open source projects, to contributors, and all the people who have contributed ideas, patches, bugs report, feature requests, donations, and help me to develop Aseprite.

License
This program is distributed under three different licenses:

Source code and official releases/binaries are distributed under our End-User License Agreement for Aseprite (EULA). Please check that there are modules/libraries in the source code that are distributed under the MIT license (e.g. laf, clip, undo, observable, ui, etc.).
You can request a special educational license in case you are a teacher in an educational institution and want to use Aseprite in your classroom (in-situ).
Steam releases are distributed under the terms of the Steam Subscriber Agreement.
You can get more information about Aseprite license in the FAQ.